
What sets the price of a bitcoin?


What is the value of a bitcoin? What determines its price?

One of the most common questions I receive is "how do you determine the price or value of a bitcoin?"

In this article, I will answer as directly as I can, and provide you with a free link which will help you further in the process.

The Price of a Bitcoin is Determined by the Free Market

In a nutshell, the price of a bitcoin is determined by the open market and what people are willing to pay for it.

As such, it fluctuates depending on market demand (ie. how much someone is willing to pay for a bitcoin.) 

The price of a bitcoin is very similar to how the price of stocks and gold goes up or down depending on how much people are willing to pay to buy or sell them.

A clear example of how this works... using pizza.

As a real example, the first purchase ever made using bitcoin was made on May 22nd, 2010

That first purchase consisted of 2 pizzas which were bought by a man named Laszlo Hanyecz.

At the time, Laszlo paid 10,000 bitcoin for 2 pizzas. The price of those 2 pizzas in 2010 was an approximate total value of $25.00 USD

With that purchase, Laszlo effectively set the real price of 1 bitcoin, in other words - what you could get in exchange for it, at 1/4 of a cent (ie. 4 bitcoin = $0.01 USD)

Fast forward to today...

As time has passed, the value of a bitcoin has grown dramatically, and the same bitcoin which was worth 1/4 of a cent in 2010 is now worth over $1,000 as of the time I write this article. 

And since bitcoins are never destroyed (they are permanently in the blockchain), what that means is that those same exact 10,000 bitcoin which were worth $25 USD on May 2010, are currently worth over $150 Million USD (at a price of 1 BTC = $15,000 USD at the time of creating this lesson.)

What has driven the price of bitcoin to rise? 

Quite simply, it's the fact that there are people willing to pay over thousands of dollars for a bitcoin. 

In other words, it's the market that determines the price of a bitcoin.

You can see a live ticker with the price of bitcoins in real time on the homepage of https://BlockchainInformer.com (a free resource that accompanies this course.)

The price you see there is a running average based on the price that bitcoins are being sold across 5 of the leading bitcoin exchanges (places where people can buy and sell bitcoin.)


